.\" shorthand for double quote that works everywhere.
.ds q \N'34'
.TH i-nex-edid 1
.SH NAME
i-nex-edid - Decode EDID data in human-readable format
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B i-nex-edid [in] [out]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B i-nex-edid
decodes EDID monitor description data in human-readable format.  It takes
zero, one, or two arguments.  If invoked with no arguments it reads from
standard input and writes to standard output.  With one argument, the file
named by the argument is read instead.  With two arguments, normal output
is suppressed, and the binary EDID blob is written to the file named by
the second argument.
.PP
Input files may be raw binaries or ASCII text.  ASCII input is scanned for
hex dumps; heuristics are included to search for hexdumps in
.B xrandr(1)
property output and
.B Xorg(1)
log file formats, otherwise the data is treated as a raw hexdump.  EDID blocks
for connected monitors can be found in
.B /sys/class/drm/*/edid
on modern Linux systems with kernel modesetting support.
.PP
.SH NOTES
Not all fields are decoded, or decoded completely.  Some fields' decoding
may appear to corrupt the output (for example, detailed string sections
have their contents printed literally).
.B i-nex-edid
does attempt to validate its input against the relevant standards, but its
opinions have not been double-checked with the relevant standards bodies,
so they may be wrong.  Do not rely on the output format, as it will likely
change in future versions of the tool as additional fields and extensions are
added.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
Xorg(1), xrandr(1)
.SH AUTHORS
i-nex-edid was written by Adam Jackson, with contributions from Eric
Anholt, Damien Lespiau, and others.  For complete history and the latest
version, see
.B http://cgit.freedesktop.org/xorg/app/edid-decode/
